# ComMit: Blind Community-based Early Mitigation Strategy against Viral Spread

ComMit is a dynamic community-based mitigation strategy for early stages of pandemics where epidemiological knowledge of the disease is limited and no vaccination is available. The strategy is featured by the following characteristics:

1. It is agnostic to the dynamics of the spread.
2. It does not require prior knowledge of the contact network.
3. It works within a limited budget.
4. It enforces bursts of short-term restriction on small communities instead of long-term isolation of healthy individuals.

ComMit relies on updated data from test-trace reports and its strategy evolves over time. It has been tested on several real-world social networks and results show that, within a small budget, ComMit can reduce the peak of infection by 73% and shorten the duration of infection by 90% even for spreads that would reach a steady state of non-zero infections otherwise (e.g., SIS contagion model).

This repository contains the Python implementation for ComMit and the scripts for reproducing our experiments.

## Repository Structure

This repository is organized into three main directories:

1. `src`: Contains the source code of the project.
2. `data`: Contains the data files used in the project.
3. `result`: Contains the result files generated by the project.

The repository is written in Python.

### Source Files (`src`)

- `config.py`: Contains configuration details for the project.
- `contagion_model.py`: Defines the contagion models used in the project.
- `mitigation_strategy.py`: Defines the mitigation strategy proposed in the paper.
- `run.py`: Main script to run the project.
- `run_NI.py`, `run_WI.py`, `run_WT.py`: Variants of the main script tailored to different scenarios.
- `test_strategy.py`: Script to test the mitigation strategy.
- `utils.py`: Contains utility functions used across the project.

### Data Files (`data`)

Data files are stored in pickled format and include:

- `albany.pkl`
- `copenhagen.pkl`
- `ithaca.pkl`
- `rochester.pkl`
- `syracuse.pkl`

### Result Files (`result`)

Results from running the scripts are stored in this directory and include:

- `NI_SIS_None_None`
- `WI_SIS_epsilon_greedy_1hopiso`
- `WI_SIS_epsilon_greedy_comiso`
- `WI_SIS_epsilon_greedy_commit`
- `WI_SIS_epsilon_greedy_degiso`
- `WI_SIS_epsilon_greedy_random`

## Getting Started

To get started with running the scripts, you would need to:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Ensure you have the necessary Python packages installed (i.e., numpy, matplotlib, and networkx).
3. Run the `run.py` script for a full project execution. For more tailored scenarios, use the appropriate run variant script.

Please refer to the comments in the individual scripts for a detailed understanding of their workings.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.
